#### *"His luminous form stood before me with the size of one hundred men. After a pause, I choked out my reply through lips agape with wonder. 'Why have it written for mortal eyes?' With a smirk, He responded. 'Our story must be told.'"*
#### *—Jarral, the Original Cleric*

The Epic of Creation is the most famous textualization of [[Originism]] religion of Kandoria. Penned by [[Jarral, the Original Cleric]], it's written as a dictation of [[Mikkeron, the Progenitor God|Mikkeron's]] firsthand account of celestial, religious, and historical events spanning from pre-[[Birth of Chaos]] to the founding of the [[Alagar|Alagarian]] town of [[Haereth]]. 

The Epic of Creation spans 3 books, each pertaining to 3 different eras in the history of Kandoria.
Book 1, titled *Stories Before Time*, tells the brief tale of how Jarral met Mikkeron, followed by Mikkeron's account of all events within the span of his existence leading up to the creation of the universe. Book 2, titled *The Call of Chaos* follows the creation of mortals and an early encounter with the forces of Chaos. The book ends with [[The Sacrifice]], which diffused a potential war between the Gods and the forces of Chaos. Notably, Jarral was alive during many of the events of *The Call of Chaos*, and he witnessed many of the book's events firsthand since he was tasked with following Mikkeron and writing in exchange for immortality. The final book, *All the Days Left* continues the story of the Gods all the way up until the creation of Haereth. The book ends with Mikkeron's *[[All the Days Left]]* speech, dedicated to the Haerethians and the future people of Kandoria. After giving the speech, Mikkeron disappeared and has not been seen since. Similarly, after finishing the scripture and distributing copies of it to cathedrals in Haereth, Jarral too disappeared.

It has been rumored that Mikkeron withdrew Jarral's immortality once his task was completed, leading to his eventual death, though this has never been substantiated with noteworthy evidence.