## *"Righteous Gods of the realm, bless us with thy great gift of harvest. Deliver us from famine and thy mercy shall preach a thousand sermons to yet unswayed souls"*
## *—Supplicant Ain*

Originism is the most practiced religion in Kandoria.

Though the existence of the Gods isn't questioned, their purpose, history, and makeup, as well as ways to worship them, are all the foundational differences between religion in Kandoria. Because of this, basically all religions believe in [[Mikkeron, the Progenitor God|Mikkeron]]'s existence, for example, but some religions see him as more, or less, important than others.

That being said, Originism's followers believe the history of the world as described in *[[The Epic of Creation]]* to be wholly correct. Worshippers primarily aim their prayers at Mikkeron, and he serves as the religion's primary [[Idol God]]. Originists credit [[Jarral, the Original Cleric|Jarral]] with having founded the religion, due to his personal relationship with Mikkeron.

Followers of Originism are classified with different identifiers depending on the context of their participation in the religion. People who follow the religion are simply called followers or worshippers. Those who preach the religion are naturally called preachers, however it's important to note that a preacher generally *only* preaches. When it comes to attempts at actual prayer, that is left to a group called the supplicants, who use holy magic to attempt to connect with the Gods. Next, there are Crusaders, who serve to protect holy sites, and eliminate heretics. Orators communicate closely with the Gods, interpreting messages from them, and even sometimes communing with them directly. It should be noted that there is also a special group of Originists, called Clericals, who are selected by Orators according to the Gods' wishes. Clericals are allowed to create a mission for themselves to serve their God(s) in a way they see fit.