In Kandoria, time is mostly similar to our world, with a few notable exceptions.
# Basics of Time
## B.C., the Birth of Chaos
In-universe, the current year is 786 B.C. Often, dates are written with the suffix "B.C.," indicating that the date was established with the system of time that started its count with the [[Birth of Chaos]], which is used in most countries. Some countries, most notably, [[Alagar]], instead use suffix "P.E.," for "Post [[Emergence]]," a tradition that has continued even after the reveal of the [[Divine Lie]] in 686 B.C. Though there was time before the Birth of Chaos, it's largely ignored, as it wasn't counted, and there were gaps between important events that often lasted millions of years.
## Structure of a Year
Each year is made up of 8 months, which are named after the [[Seasons|seasons]]. In order, these months are Primrise, Primfall, Starrise, Starfall, Moonrise, Moonfall, Frostrise, and Frostfall. Notably, Alagar uses Dustrise and Dustfall in place of Moonrise and Moonfall, due to their unique [[Season of Dust]] caused by the Crest of Kolasir. Each month lasts 5 tendays, totaling 50 days per month for 400 days per Kandorian year.
## Noteworthy Errors Involving Time
As already stated, Alagar uses P.E. as their suffix due to the Divine Lie. Another notable error regarding time involves [[Shoresmouth]], which incorrectly assumed 443 more years had passed than actually had. This was due to a misremembering of events by the twin brothers [[Tyrant and Tybalt]], who were led to believe more time had passed due to an enchantment placed upon them by the witch [[Temdara]]. 